.TH NOTMUCH-COUNT 1 2013-02-17 "Notmuch 0.15.2"
.SH NAME
notmuch-count \- count messages matching the given search terms
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch count
.RI  [ options "... ] <" search-term ">..."

.SH DESCRIPTION

Count messages matching the search terms.

The number of matching messages (or threads) is output to stdout.

With no search terms, a count of all messages (or threads) in the database will
be displayed.

See \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7)
for details of the supported syntax for <search-terms>.

Supported options for
.B count
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-output=(messages|threads)

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B messages

Output the number of matching messages. This is the default.
.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B threads

Output the number of matching threads.
.RE
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-exclude=(true|false)

Specify whether to omit messages matching search.tag_exclude from the
count (the default) or not.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-batch

Read queries from a file (stdin by default), one per line, and output
the number of matching messages (or threads) to stdout, one per
line. On an empty input line the count of all messages (or threads) in
the database will be output. This option is not compatible with
specifying search terms on the command line.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR "\-\-input=" <filename>

Read input from given file, instead of from stdin. Implies
.BR --batch .
.RE

.RE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
