.TH NOTMUCH-NEW 1 2013-02-17 "Notmuch 0.15.2"
.SH NAME
notmuch-new \- incorporate new mail into the notmuch database
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch new
.RB "[" --no-hooks "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

Find and import any new messages to the database.

The
.B new
command scans all sub-directories of the database, performing
full-text indexing on new messages that are found. Each new message
will automatically be tagged with both the
.BR inbox " and " unread
tags.

You should run
.B "notmuch new"
once after first running
.B "notmuch setup"
to create the initial database. The first run may take a long time if
you have a significant amount of mail (several hundred thousand
messages or more). Subsequently, you should run
.B "notmuch new"
whenever new mail is delivered and you wish to incorporate it into the
database. These subsequent runs will be much quicker than the initial
run.

Invoking
.B notmuch
with no command argument will run
.B new
if
.B "notmuch setup"
has previously been completed, but
.B "notmuch new"
has not previously been run.

.B "notmuch new"
updates tags according to maildir flag changes if the
.B "maildir.synchronize_flags"
configuration option is enabled. See \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1) for
details.

The
.B new
command supports hooks. See  \fBnotmuch-hooks(5)\fR
for more details on hooks.

Supported options for
.B new
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.BR \-\-no\-hooks

Prevents hooks from being run.
.RE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
