.TH NOTMUCH-REPLY 1 2013-02-17 "Notmuch 0.15.2"
.SH NAME
notmuch-reply \- constructs a reply template for a set of messages

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch reply
.RI "[" options "...] <" search-term ">..."

.SH DESCRIPTION

Constructs a reply template for a set of messages.

To make replying to email easier,
.B notmuch reply
takes an existing set of messages and constructs a suitable mail
template. The Reply-to: header (if any, otherwise From:) is used for
the To: address. Unless
.BR \-\-reply-to=sender
is specified, values from the To: and Cc: headers are copied, but not
including any of the current user's email addresses (as configured in
primary_mail or other_email in the .notmuch\-config file) in the
recipient list.

It also builds a suitable new subject, including Re: at the front (if
not already present), and adding the message IDs of the messages being
replied to to the References list and setting the In\-Reply\-To: field
correctly.

Finally, the original contents of the emails are quoted by prefixing
each line with '> ' and included in the body.

The resulting message template is output to stdout.

Supported options for
.B reply
include
.RS
.TP 4
.BR \-\-format= ( default | json | sexp | headers\-only )
.RS
.TP 4
.BR default
Includes subject and quoted message body.
.TP
.BR json
Produces JSON output containing headers for a reply message and the
contents of the original message. This output can be used by a client
to create a reply message intelligently.
.TP
.BR sexp
Produces S-Expression output containing headers for a reply message and
the contents of the original message. This output can be used by a client
to create a reply message intelligently.
.TP
.BR headers\-only
Only produces In\-Reply\-To, References, To, Cc, and Bcc headers.
.RE
.RE

.RS
.TP 4
.BR \-\-format-version=N

Use the specified structured output format version.  This is intended
for programs that invoke \fBnotmuch\fR(1) internally.  If omitted, the
latest supported version will be used.
.RE

.RS
.TP 4
.BR \-\-reply\-to= ( all | sender )
.RS
.TP 4
.BR all " (default)"
Replies to all addresses.
.TP 4
.BR sender
Replies only to the sender. If replying to user's own message
(Reply-to: or From: header is one of the user's configured email
addresses), try To:, Cc:, and Bcc: headers in this order, and copy
values from the first that contains something other than only the
user's addresses.
.RE
.RE
.RS
.TP 4
.B \-\-decrypt

Decrypt any MIME encrypted parts found in the selected content
(ie. "multipart/encrypted" parts). Status of the decryption will be
reported (currently only supported with --format=json and
--format=sexp) and on successful decryption the multipart/encrypted
part will be replaced by the decrypted content.

Decryption expects a functioning \fBgpg-agent\fR(1) to provide any
needed credentials. Without one, the decryption will fail.
.RE

See \fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7)
for details of the supported syntax for <search-terms>.

Note: It is most common to use
.B "notmuch reply"
with a search string matching a single message, (such as
id:<message-id>), but it can be useful to reply to several messages at
once. For example, when a series of patches are sent in a single
thread, replying to the entire thread allows for the reply to comment
on issues found in multiple patches. The default format supports
replying to multiple messages at once, but the JSON and S-Expression
formats do not.
.RE
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS

This command supports the following special exit status codes

.TP
.B 20
The requested format version is too old.
.TP
.B 21
The requested format version is too new.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
