.TH NOTMUCH-RESTORE 1 2013-02-17 "Notmuch 0.15.2"
.SH NAME
notmuch-restore \- restores the tags from the given file (see notmuch dump)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "notmuch restore"
.RB [ "--accumulate" ]
.RB [ "--format=(auto|batch-tag|sup)" ]
.RI "[ --input=<" filename "> ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

Restores the tags from the given file (see
.BR "notmuch dump" ")."

The input is read from the given filename, if any, or from stdin.


Supported options for
.B restore
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-accumulate

The union of the existing and new tags is applied, instead of
replacing each message's tags as they are read in from the dump file.

.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B \-\-format=(sup|batch-tag|auto)

Notmuch restore supports two plain text dump formats, with each line
specifying a message-id and a set of tags.
For details of the actual formats, see \fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1).

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B sup

The
.B sup
dump file format is specifically chosen to be
compatible with the format of files produced by sup-dump.
So if you've previously been using sup for mail, then the
.B "notmuch restore"
command provides you a way to import all of your tags (or labels as
sup calls them).

.RE
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B batch-tag

The
.B batch-tag
dump format is intended to more robust against malformed message-ids
and tags containing whitespace or non-\fBascii\fR(7) characters.  See
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1) for details on this format.

.B "notmuch restore"
updates the maildir flags according to tag changes if the
.B "maildir.synchronize_flags"
configuration option is enabled. See \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1) for
details.

.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B auto

This option (the default) tries to guess the format from the
input. For correctly formed input in either supported format, this
heuristic, based the fact that batch-tag format contains no parentheses,
should be accurate.

.RE

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
