.TH NOTMUCH-INSERT 1 2013-xx-xx "Notmuch 0.xx"
.SH NAME
notmuch-insert \- add a message to the maildir and notmuch database
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch insert
.RI "[" options "]"
.RI "[ +<" tag> "|\-<" tag "> ... ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B notmuch insert
reads a message from standard input
and delivers it into the maildir directory given by configuration option
.BR database.path ,
then incorporates the message into the notmuch database.
It is an alternative to using a separate tool to deliver
the message then running
.B notmuch new
afterwards.

The new message will be tagged with the tags specified by the
.B new.tags
configuration option, then by operations specified on the command-line:
tags prefixed by '+' are added while
those prefixed by '\-' are removed.

If the new message is a duplicate of an existing message in the database
(it has same Message-ID), it will be added to the maildir folder and
notmuch database, but the tags will not be changed.

Option arguments must appear before any tag operation arguments.
Supported options for
.B insert
include
.RS 4
.TP 4
.BI "--folder=<" folder ">"

Deliver the message to the specified folder,
relative to the top-level directory given by the value of
\fBdatabase.path\fR.
The default is to deliver to the top-level directory.

.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS

This command returns exit status 0 if the message was successfully
added to the mail directory, even if the message could not be indexed
and added to the notmuch database.  In the latter case, a warning will
be printed to standard error but the message file will be left on disk.

If the message could not be written to disk then a non-zero exit
status is returned.

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-config\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
