.TH NOTMUCH-CONFIG 1 2013-02-17 "Notmuch 0.15.2"
.SH NAME
notmuch-config \- access notmuch configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B notmuch config get
.RI  "<" section ">.<" item ">"

.B notmuch config set
.RI  "<" section ">.<" item "> [" value " ...]"

.B notmuch config list

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B config
command can be used to get or set settings in the notmuch
configuration file.

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B get
The value of the specified configuration item is printed to stdout. If
the item has multiple values (it is a list), each value is separated
by a newline character.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B set
The specified configuration item is set to the given value. To specify
a multiple-value item (a list), provide each value as a separate
command-line argument.

If no values are provided, the specified configuration item will be
removed from the configuration file.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B list
Every configuration item is printed to stdout, each on a separate line
of the form:

.RI  "" section "." item "=" value

No additional whitespace surrounds the dot or equals sign characters. In a
multiple-value item (a list), the values are separated by semicolon characters.
.RE

The available configuration items are described below.

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B database.path
The top-level directory where your mail currently exists and to where
mail will be delivered in the future. Files should be individual email
messages. Notmuch will store its database within a sub-directory of
the path configured here named
.BR ".notmuch".
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B user.name
Your full name.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B user.primary_email
Your primary email address.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B user.other_email
A list of other email addresses at which you receive email.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B new.tags
A list of tags that will be added to all messages incorporated by
.BR "notmuch new".
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B new.ignore
A list of file and directory names, without path, that will not be
searched for messages by
.BR "notmuch new".
All the files and directories matching any of the names specified here
will be ignored, regardless of the location in the mail store
directory hierarchy.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B search.exclude_tags
A list of tags that will be excluded from search results by
default. Using an excluded tag in a query will override that
exclusion.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP 4
.B maildir.synchronize_flags
If true, then the following maildir flags (in message filenames) will
be synchronized with the corresponding notmuch tags:

  Flag    Tag
  ----    -------
  D       draft
  F       flagged
  P       passed
  R       replied
  S       unread (added when 'S' flag is not present)

The
.B notmuch new
command will notice flag changes in filenames and update tags, while
the
.B notmuch tag
and
.B notmuch restore
commands will notice tag changes and update flags in filenames.

If there have been any changes in the maildir (new messages added, old
ones removed or renamed, maildir flags changed, etc.), it is advisable
to run
.B notmuch new
before
.B notmuch tag
or
.B notmuch restore
commands to ensure the tag changes are properly synchronized to the
maildir flags, as the commands expect the database and maildir to be
in sync.
.RE

.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables can be used to control the
behavior of notmuch.
.TP
.B NOTMUCH_CONFIG
Specifies the location of the notmuch configuration file. Notmuch will
use ${HOME}/.notmuch\-config if this variable is not set.
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnotmuch\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-count\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-dump\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-hooks\fR(5), \fBnotmuch-new\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-reply\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-restore\fR(1), \fBnotmuch-search\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-search-terms\fR(7), \fBnotmuch-show\fR(1),
\fBnotmuch-tag\fR(1)
